A few historical notes on RPFITS
--------------------------------

RPFITS was developed c1984 by Ray Norris and so is not much younger 
than FITS itself which explains some of its eccentricities.  At that 
time FITS didn't have a floating point format, everything had to be
converted to integer.  RPFITS originally went with that but switched
to VAX floating point and 2560-byte blocks when the ATCA came into 
operation to cope with an IO bottle-neck between correlator and tape
via a VAX.  Also, for real-time use with data streamed to tape, GCOUNT 
is normally set to 0 in the header - and that's still the case even 
though data now goes to disk!  Thus RPFITS readers are required to 
expand output files on the fly.  This was a challenge to code in AIPS 
in 1985 - it didn't support file expansion because Modcomps couldn't
do it.

RPFITS was designed for visibility data from the ATCA and was used 
initially for the PTI (Parkes-Tidbinbilla Interferometer).  No thought 
at all was given to single dish data.  If I remember correctly, it was 
adapted for the Parkes multibeam system in the mid-1990s via the simple 
expedient of storing RA, Dec, and UTC (the position timestamp) in the 
UU, VV, and WW random parameters, with BASELINE used for the beam 
number.  With this, none of the low-level RPFITS IO code needed to be
changed - how's that for recycling!

The name "RPFITS" came from "RadioPhysics FITS", Radiophysics being 
the precursor of ATNF.  However, its oddities led Eric Greisen c1990
to dub it "Ray's Pseudo-FITS" which is how I still think of it!

2010/11/12 MRC
